=== Values:

Individuals and interactions over processes and tools

Consumable solutions over comprehensive documentation

Stakeholder collaboration over contract negotiation

Responding to change over following a plan

That is, while there is value in the items on the right, disciplined agilists value the items on the left more.

=== Principles:

Our highest priority is to satisfy the stakeholder through early and continuous delivery of valuable solutions.

Welcome changing requirements, even late in the solution delivery lifecycle. Agile processes harness change for the customer’s competitive advantage.

Deliver consumable solutions frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter time scale.

Stakeholders and developers must work together daily throughout the project.

Build teams around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.

The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a delivery team is face-to-face conversation.

Consumable solutions are the primary measure of progress.

Agile processes promote sustainable delivery. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.

Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.

Simplicity – the art of maximizing the amount of work not done – is essential.

The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.

At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.

Leverage and evolve the assets within your organizational ecosystem, and collaborate with the people responsible for those assets to do so.

Visualize workflow to help achieve a smooth flow of delivery while keeping work in progress to a minimum.

The organizational ecosystem must evolve to reflect and enhance the efforts of agile teams, yet be sufficiently flexible to still support non-agile or hybrid teams.
